\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename Players-Guide.info
@settitle Tootsville Players' Guide
@c %**end of header
@copying
An introduction to Tootsville.

Copyright @copyright{} 2018, the Corporation for Inter-World Tourism and
Adventuring.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
A copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU
Free Documentation License''.

A copy of the license is also available from the Free Software
Foundation Web site at @url{https://www.gnu.org/licenses/fdl.html}.

@end quotation

The document was typeset with
@uref{http://www.texinfo.org/, GNU Texinfo}.

@end copying

@titlepage
@title Tootsville Players' Guide
@subtitle An introduction to Tootsville
@author Bruce-Robert Pocock <brpocock@@tootsville.org>
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@c Output the table of the contents at the beginning.
@contents

@ifnottex
@menu
@end menu

@node Top, Introduction, (dir), (dir)
@top Tootsville Players' Guide

@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@c Generate the nodes for this menu with `C-c C-u C-m'.
@menu
* ::
@end menu

@node Introduction
@chapter* Introduction

@node What is Tootsville?
@section What is Tootsville?

@node Getting Ready
@section Getting Ready

In order  to play in Tootsville,  you'll need a computer  of some kind
with certain minimum capabilities.

You   can    find   these    requirements   in   the    Wiki-Wiki   at
@url{https://wiki.tootsville.org/wiki/System_Requirements}

You   can   also  test   your   system's   capabilities  by   visiting
@url{https://play.tootsville.org/play/system-check/}

For best results, we recommend playing using the latest version of the
Mozilla Firefox@registered{} web browser. If  you have a different web
browser, like Chrome or Edge, you can probably still play the game, or
you can upgrade to Firefox by visiting @url{https://getfirefox.com/}

There is also a  link on the main menu (the  menu accessed by clicking
on the circled  T logo at the  top-left corner of the  game screen) to
download   Firefox    if   you   begin   playing    the   game   using
a different browser.

@node Signing In
@section Signing In

You'll sign in to Tootsville using your Google account.

If you're already logged in to Google when you visit the site, you'll just
be asked to authorize Tootsville once.

If you aren't yet signed in to your Google account, you'll have the
opportunity to do so.

Once  you've signed  in, you'll  go  directly to  your Toot  character
selection screen.

@c Update all node entries with `C-c C-u C-n'.
@c Insert new nodes with `C-c C-c n'.
@node Managing Toots, , Introduction, Top
@chapter Managing Toots

When you play in Tootsville, you'll take control of a Toot character
yourself. When you first sign in, you'll be guided through creating your
first Toot character.

If you later decide you want to create another one, perhaps for a family
member, you can also do so from the login screen.

@menu
* Creating a New Toot::
* Toots for Children::
* Sensitive Players::
@end menu

@node Creating a New Toot, , Managing Toots, Managing Toots
@section Creating a New Toot

Toot characters start off with a name and an appearance. We'll also give you
a few items with which to start your exploration.

Toot names are just like human names, but they all have to be unique. You
can join together word-parts with hyphens. Here are some Toot names:

@itemize
@item
Flora
@item
Null-Pointer-Exception
@item
Codfish-Howie
@end itemize

If you really want to include a number, it has to be the last part of a
name. You can't name a Toot something like ``99luftballoons,'' but you could
name them ``Luftballoons-99'' or so.

Toot characters have some basic  appearance settings, as well. You can
choose the base  color of your Toot's  skin, the color of  the pads of
their feet  and trunk,  and the  color of the  pattern on  their skin.
You can also choose what pattern they will have.

Once you've made  these choices, you can immediately  start playing as
your Toot character.

@node Toots for Children, , Creating a New Toot, Managing Toots
@section Toots for Children

You can also create a Toot character for a child (under the age of
13). A child account is special because they won't be able to play in
Tootsville without your permission.

WRITEME

@node Sensitive Players,  , Toots for Children, Managing Toots
@section Sensitive Players

We  all know  in the  real world  that certain  topics of  conversation
aren't appropriate to have around children; this is often summed up by
saying, ``don't talk about sex, religion, or politics.''

In  Tootsville, players  who  are  children or  who  have checked  the
``sensitive  player'' box  on their  login screen  are presented  with
a black diamond next to their name.

When  a sensitive  player (who  may  be a  child) is  nearby, a  black
diamond  will also  appear in  your chat  bar, to  remind you  to mind
your language.

If you decide you want to discuss adult topics, there are several bars
in Tootsville  in which children  are not  allowed, and where  you can
speak candidly about  any topic within reason. Of  course, hate speech
will never be tolerated.

@node Now That You're In Tootsville, Copying This Manual, Managing Toots, Top
@chapter Now That You're In Tootsville

WRITEME Now that you're in Tootsville

@menu
* Wishing Wells::
* Getting Around::
* Building a House::
* Shopping::
* Useful Tools::
* Troops and Operators::
@end menu

@node Wishing Wells, , Now That  You're In Tootsville, Now That You're In Tootsville
@section Wishing Wells

WRITEME Wishing wells

@node Getting Around, , Wishing Wells, Now That You're In Tootsville
@section Getting Around

WRITEME Getting Around

@node Building a House, , Getting Around, Now That You're In Tootsville
@section Building a House

WRITEME Building a house

@node Shopping, , Building a House, Now That You're In Tootsville
@section Shopping

WRITEME Shopping

@node Useful Tools, , Shopping, Now That You're In Tootsville
@section Useful Tools

WRITEME Useful Tools

@node Troops and Operators,  , Useful Tools, Now That You're In Tootsville
@section Troops and Operators

Tootsville players may  volunteer to join the ranks of  the Toot Troops.
This  is  an  organization  who  help new  players  and  keep  the  game
running smoothly.

WRITEME

Some players are  invited to be Tootsville Operators.  Operators can see
``behind the curtains'' into the inner workings of Tootsville.

WRITEME

Some operators are  Builder Toots. Builder Toots  actually construct the
game itself, including arranging public spaces like Toot Square.

WRITEME

@include Conclusion.texi

@node Index,  , Copying This Manual, Top
@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp

@bye

@c Players-Guide.texi ends here
